Display a place with a lot of genomi elements during 4 seconds.

Sébastien: Hi, Sébastien here.

Sébastien: Today, I will show how to visualize a sample from the Human Microbiome Project with Ray
Cloud Browser. So, just to put us in context, what's this microbiome project ?

Display PDF http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3564958/pdf/nihms378076.pdf during 1 second)

Sébastien: Basically, it's an effort to study the bacteria that we
host on and in our human body. Some of these bacteria are very hard to grow in a laboratory.

Sébastien: So the trick is to read bacterial DNA without growing bacteria in a laboratory.
This task is done using DNA sequencers, some sort of expensive appliances a little bit bigger
than a oven.

Sébastien: Here's is a description of the sample I am going to visualize.

Sébastien: The sample is SRS011134 (see link in the comments). Researchers from the 
Human Microbiome Project extracted DNA from a human male's stool.

Display ENA page for this sample.

Sébastien: This DNA is presumably mostly
from bacterial source. And now we have a bunch of files containing DNA data for that on
a computer.

Sébastien: How large is the data ?
About 13 Gigabytes and it's compressed too.

Show 2 second a Nautilus Windows (Gnome Shell) with the files

Sébastien: Now I'll show you how we can visualize this data.

Sébastien clicks the link http://genome.ulaval.ca:10208/client/ (contig-135, 1100)

Sébastien: so first, we have to select the sample. After that, we select a section (there's just one here),
and finally, we select a place where we want to start and we go there.

Sébastien: The blue moving squares located in the top of the display tells us that
it is loading.

Sébastien: Now that's loaded, I will explain what we see.

Sébastien: The circles with a letter inside (A, T, C, or G) represent DNA sequences found in the sample and the links 
between them are genetic overlap of all but one letter (these letters are called nucleotides).

Sébastien: The colored paths we see were computed using Ray, an assembly software.

Sébastien: Hovering over a circle shows us its true sequence in the bottom left corner.
Also, the life bar on top of each small circle represents its abundancy in the sample.

Sébastien: What can I do with that viewer ?

Sébastien: Well, I can explore huge DNA graphs using a web browser. That's cool, is it not ?

Sébastien: For example, I can select a part of this graph to inspect its DNA sequence.
Sébastien selects DNA sequences

Sébastien: I can also zoom in and out and move around using the controls in the top-right corner.

Sébastien: What else can I do with that toy ?

Sébastien: For me, the main entertaining feature is to press the play button and let
the thing transport me in places I have never been before. Let's start !
Sébastien presses the play button (go left).
Sébastien explains what we see.

Sébastien: That's nice, but where's the science ?

Sébastien: With this tool, I can inspect the structural relationships between DNA sequences found in a given
sample. For example, here we can see one repeated region unwind into numerous strings that use it.

Sébastien: Let's resume our journey in this part of the graph.
Sébastien presses play.
A deadend is reached.

Sébastien: We have now reached a deadend in the graph. A deadend means that at this location,
there is no sequencing data available. Pressing the graphs button shows the sequencing depth
at each position in the path. With this, we see the drop at the end.

Sébastien: A deadend can also mean that the assembly software went the wrong way.

Sébastien: I showed the end of a DNA path in this graph.

Sébastien: Most of the paths are easy to find in the graph because sizable part of this
graph is just long linear stretches of DNA. Let me show you an example.

Sébastien changes location to the middle of a region.
As you can see, this is easy to go from here to there because there is just
one way to do it.

Sébastien: This completes what I wanted to share with you today.

Sébastien pops in the screen
Sébastien: Thank you for watching, and happy visualization of your DNA data !

